---
layout: post
title: 
---

## Wait for it
giveforfree is far from ready, and we've a terribly long list of stuff we plan to complete within the next two weeks. At the same time, we've also been informed that UI/UX evaluations are starting this week so we'll be waiting for the email to arrive lolol.

## Critical features
On the backend, we're currently focused on implementing (1) notifications and (2) a better image uploading experience (with cropping functionality - and maybe support for multiple images?). On the front end, Larry has a ton of stuff he plans to improve so erm...all I can say is jiayou lolol.

## Validating the idea
Xu Jie has been spending a lot of time talking to potential app users. One of the biggest finds would be a [pre-existing local community](https://www.facebook.com/events/304566046600649/) that gives away free stuff. He went down last Sunday to check it out, and ask some of them how they felt about such an app. He was able to obtain plenty of feedback on the UI side (which Larry is working to fix), as well as certain key functionality (like more urgent deadlines since some of them wanted their stuff cleared in as little as 2 days). There's so much to work on omggg.

## Assignment 2
As important as it is to rush Assignment 1, it's important to remember that Assignment 2 slides are due this Friday! Just met up with the team today for a few hours to discuss the general points for the presentation. Btw, our app is Periscope, a video-streaming app integrated with Twitter.

## Fun and exciting times
I'm spending almost all my time on CS3216 lol. Haven't touched all my other tutorials yet haha.