---
layout: post
title: Diving into Angular
---

## Assignment 3 Updates
So...the test version of our app is hosted [here](http://schoolines.ddns.net/#/). Right now, it's just a plain UI, but we hope it progresses beyond this soon. Most of our backend code is already written up, but the frontend and backend code was written separately, so it's probably going to take some time to integrate. (Update: Hanming just integrated it last night while I was asleep lolol)

## New framework to learn
I didn't have much web development experience coming into CS3216. I had played around with Flask and Bootstrap, but didn't touch any of the 'cooler' stuff, like the Javascript stacks. In Assignment 1, I had to quickly pick up Node and Express, but it wasn't that bad since I had some experience with routing and stuff, as well as plenty of help from Patrick. We used Bootstrap for front-end, so I could also edit the front-end code directly without breaking it (too often).

We're going to be using Angular for Assignment 3! This is my first time trying out **any** front-end framework, so I'm *excited* that I have the chance to do it now. I'll try my best not to break any of the code, and will definitely be looking to the two Angular experts in my team (Ten and Hanming) to guide me through any difficulties. Hopefully, they don't find me too blur lolol.

## PWA
We haven't really referred too much to the assignment milestones while building the app. Hopefully, it won't be too hard to integrate all the ServiceWorkers and Storage thingys into our app afterwards.

## Recess Week next week
Recess week is next week, and I think our team is probably going to be rushing Assignment 3 through the whole of the week. I hope this still leaves some time for studying for my other midterms, cos as of right now I've no idea what's going on in those other mods...


